okay the rtx 3080 from nvidia this
is the most powerful gpu i've ever had
in the studio it's also the most
exciting
graphics card i've ever put into a
system it is awesome
now i spent the greater part of the past
week just playing a ton of games on this
thing
so i want to go through the user
experience talk about some things that
you should be aware of if you're
interested in picking this thing up
and let's just get in now the design
elements of this thing
this gpu looks very different from
anything else nvidia's put out before
the 10 series i thought always looked
like ninja turtles i loved the way those
things looked and i think most people
did at the time
the 20 series was less appealing to me
it's more simpler design
but this year the 30 series looks
awesome i love the design language on
this thing
to me it's like the fins right normally
there's some kind of shroud that covers
up a lot of the fins but this year
the fins are what define the design
aesthetic of this thing it's such a nice
design language
i love it it's a very industrial look
and it's very clean there's no screws
at least no visible screws you got to
pop off covers to get to them
it's a really nice looking card the
geforce logo lights up with white
leds it's not green like previous years
and you can't change the color or
anything at least not that i can tell
you also can't turn it off in software
at least not in the evj x1
so it's just white leds and it looks
pretty clean and there's also some faint
white leds as well on the x design
across the front
and the back of the card there's also a
new 12 pin
power connector so the way this works is
it takes two
eight pin pcie connections and it pipes
it into a single
12 pin they include the adapter it's
like a y-shaped splitter
i don't love it it doesn't matter how
you spin it like it just looks
unattractive and it takes away from the
overall amazing design aesthetic of this
gpu
but if you want this design aesthetic
and you want this you know
fin based design language you got to go
for that connection
okay let's talk about performance the
rtx 3080
is just so powerful that most games
played in 1080p
are gonna be stupid fast like this gpu
only really gets to show off its stuff
when it's playing in 1440p
or in 4k resolution and this is all
without ray tracing we'll get to
raytrace stuff in a bit so there are
some crazy games like red dead
redemption 2
that can be super graphically demanding
like it can fill up the full
10 gigs of video ram but in general
1440p
and 4k gaming runs crazy high frame
rates on this card
now i played both on a 65-inch 4k omen
tv and some regular monitors
but it's just so nice to see this kind
of resolution running at
super high frame rates right you got to
look for it you got to stick your face
right up to the screen but yeah if
you're playing on
a high resolution display and you like
to crank up your graphics settings
this will deliver some super smooth
visuals now to use this card i had to
build a completely different system so
this
case here like the ghost s1 this is how
i normally
this is where my builds usually go into
right small form factor
but this card is a little different
uh there's two or three things you need
to be aware of if you want to put this
thing
into your system number one it's a
slightly longer
length so this thing runs at 285
millimeters instead of like the regular
267 so
if you have a really small case this may
not fit this does fit
in the ghost s1 if you are interested
but
another issue that i ran into on this
thing the power requirements
so i used to run a 600 watt power supply
on my old setups and you could get away
with it even the 2080 ti could run
on the 600 watt power supply this does
not
i tried it it chokes it actually doesn't
run at 600 watts i think you could get
away with 650 i wouldn't recommend it
and i'd end up going with a regular atx
power supply like a 750 watt one but
because it was a larger power supply
i had to build into a larger case so for
the people that like to build into small
form factor cases like i do
you got to keep that in mind we'll get
into power consumption a little bit at
the end
but i want to talk about the fans for a
second the fan configuration
on the founders edition the 3080 is
quite unique so it's got two fans one on
each side
one is like a cross through airflow and
then the second fan
exhausts out the back now this
particular fan configuration
i think is good only in cases that
have good airflow like if you have a
small form factor case like i normally
like to build in
this cross through fan can push heat
into the system but if you have a
regular case with good airflow
it's a great thermal design the fans
themselves
i really like them again if you have a
normal case they are
super quiet like way quieter than i
thought they would be number one
the fans don't need to spin if the gpu
isn't particularly hot so after you boot
it
if this thing's around 65 degrees
celsius or lower
the fans are completely still like they
don't even move
and it's weird right you see this nvidia
gpu plugged into your computer and it's
like
what's going on like is this thing
busted they don't actually spin until
they get to a particular temperature
once it's spinning it's still super
quiet like
weirdly quiet for in high-end nvidia gpu
the thing is if you have bad airflow in
your case and these fans need to spin up
at max
it is an annoying sound it's not super
loud but it is a higher pitched
wine that is quite unpleasant but that
only exists
in again with cases with poor airflow
but
in i think like 95 of builds you're
gonna love
the thermal design and the acoustics of
this gpu
uh okay i want to talk about ray tracing
because i think ray tracing is where
this gpu really shines
so a couple years ago when rtx 20 series
gpus first came out
the performance with ray traced games
weren't great especially for the cost of
those cards even the 20 ti didn't have
amazing rtx performance the 3080
at 700 delivers like 35 to maybe 40
better ray tracing performance than a
2080 ti
it's really good ray trace games look
amazing right stuff just looks so
different it's this
visual treat to see these types of
graphics like the shadows
the reflections the lighting it's all
done so well
and this kind of image quality isn't new
right we've been able to see this for a
while
but being able to use ray tracing while
maintaining a high frame rate like this
at a reasonable price is significant
it's special like if you think about
what this is going to do
the 30 series gpus like eventually the
3060 the 3070s they're going to come out
and when those come out this type of
tech like
reasonably priced ray tracing capable
gpus is gonna
it's gonna spread right more and more
gamers are gonna have access to this
kind of
ray tracing capability with their cards
and then the developers
now there's a real incentive for
developers to put in the effort and the
time
to make ray tracing available in games
like i think this is going to be a
turning point
not the specific card but the 30 series
is going to be a real
huge turning point in ray tracing for
games like you saw what that stuff looks
like
it is so nice it's a whole new type of
gaming and the pricing
is becoming reasonable now i want to
close off this video with
a conversation of power consumption i
think this is my one and only
major concern i have about these new
gpus
the rtx 3080 the founders edition pulls
around 320 and maybe 330 watts at peak
it's it's a pretty power hungry gpu
now compare this to last year's or two
years ago the 2080 ti
that pulled around 280 at peak so about
a 50 watt difference which is not
super significant but if you look at
percentages this is like a
20 power draw
for about a 35 maybe 40
depending on type of gaming and
resolution let's say 35 to be
conservative
35 percent better performance for 20
increase in power consumption now they
went to a smaller manufacturing this is
eight nanometer tech
from samsung and it's not as
energy efficient as i thought it would
be the strength
of the 30 series really seems to be
lying in its price point be able to
offer this
kind of hardware for 700 bucks or if you
go with the 30 70
500 bucks it's something special like to
have this kind of
high resolution high frame rate gaming
and you can
trace some raise while you're doing it
it's going to last you so many years
right and so i feel like if you have
money and you're looking at this
it's an easy recommendation for me okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]
you